# CS-360-Mobile-Architecture-and-Programming
##1. Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?
- The developed app is an inventory tracking system that enables its users to manage all available items in a warehouse or other establishments that require tracking their inventory. It provides a login screen for existing users as well as signup options for new users. There are multiple tables within the app’s database to store users’ and items’ data. This app utilizes the SQLite database to provide all the necessary warehouse operations such as add, read, update, and delete functions (The database CRUD operations). The user can also enable the SMS notification to receive low inventory alerts from the system.
2. What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?
- The necessary screens and features of the app can be categorized into two distinct categories. The first category is for user authentication or creation. And the second category is for inventory management and operation. Since the main emphasis is on increasing user productivity, this app provides an organized and streamlined user interface design that efficiently enables users to take advantage of all the functionalities to perform their tasks. The app’s intuitive user interface design is simple yet functional and enables users with different levels of technical knowledge to utilize it without any difficulties.
3. How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those be applied in the future?
- I start by ensuring the user interface has all the required functionality that the user requested. Then determine what functionalities each user interface’s screen needs to perform optimally. This approach built the application’s structure and gave me the foundation of the application. I always ensure to understand what the user asks and needs at the beginning of the application development process because it is vital to the success of the application and creates a correct logical structure for the application that enforces the flow and streamlines the application development. I followed the code development best practices and utilized an organized and simplified code structure to ensure its legibility. I also utilize incremental code development and frequent testing to produce bug-free applications and ensure that added new features do not negatively affect the application’s performance or break it. Following the recommended standards when developing an application instills the habit of using coding best practices each time developing a new application.
4. How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important and what did it reveal?
- I used both virtual and physical devices for testing the application and compared the result frequently, especially each time implemented new features to ensure its functionality and smooth operation. This process is important because it helps to fix errors that negatively impact the application. It also helps the developer to be confident that the final product provides a consistent and pleasant user experience.
5. Considering the full app design and development process, from initial planning to finalization, where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?
